<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>Lilith 0.9.36</title>
		<link href="help.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>Lilith 0.9.36</h1>

		<a class="download" href="http://sourceforge.net/projects/lilith/files/lilith/0.9.36">Download Now!
		<br />(Released: 2009-07-20)</a>

		
		<h2>Changes</h2>
		<ul>
			<li>
			Added missing contact page to help.
			</li>

			<li>
			Added new messageRegex example groovy condition.
			</li>

			<li>
			Updated Groovy to 1.6.3
			</li>

			<li>
			Some locks and blocking queues are fair now.
			</li>

			<li>
			Changed shortcut of "Import" to "command shift I". It collided with "Add condition...", previously.<br/>
			This was reported by Scott Stanton.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/60">Ticket 60</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Implemented Drag and Drop of Lilith files.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/47">Ticket 47</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Option to disable splash screen.<br/>
			This was requested by Thorbjoern Ravn Andersen.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/25">Ticket 25</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Option to ask before exit.<br/>
			This was requested by Lothar Cezanne.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/26">Ticket 26</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Added "Startup &amp; Shutdown" pane to preferences dialog.
			</li>

			<li>
			Added "Troubleshooting" pane to preferences dialog.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/55">Ticket 55</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			MultiplexSocketAppenderBase is now extending UnsynchronizedAppenderBase instead of AppenderBase.<br/>
			This was suggested by Maarten Bosteels and Ralph Goers.
			</li>

			<li>
			Added new option "Show stacktrace of Throwables" so non-technical people can disable it to just see
			the exception and, if available, message. Clicking on the name or message of an exception will
			now also open the code in IDEA.
			</li>

			<li>
			"Copy call stack" and "Copy Throwable" are now prepending the StackTraceElements with "\tat " as
			requested in ticket:61. The detailsView is also displaying "at " before any StackTraceElement.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/61">Ticket 61</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Added option to color the entire row of a table according to the level/status of the event.<br/>
			This was requested by Scott Stanton.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/56">Ticket 56</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Changes to support Logback 0.9.16. Updated SLF4J to 1.5.8.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/39">Ticket 39</a>)			
			</li>
		</ul>
		<p>
		<a href="http://lilith.huxhorn.de/changes-0.9.37.xhtml">Changes of 0.9.37</a>
		</p>
	</body>
</html>

