<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
     PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
     "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>Frequently Asked Questions</title>
		<link href="help.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<p><a href="index.xhtml">ToC</a></p>

		<h1><a name="top">Frequently Asked Questions</a></h1>

        <dl>
            <dt>Why is Lilith still only supporting Logback 0.9.9?</dt>
            <dd>
                Logback 0.9.10 introduced new version information in the StackTraceElement string representation. This
                breaks my current implementation of parsing. Since I parse the STEs both during receiving of original
                Logback events and during creation of Lilith events in the multiplex appender, the parsing means a
                significant performance impact. Previously, I circumvented this by using a hack and accessing the STEs
                directly but this would now have the downside that I wouldn't be able to retrieve the formerly mentioned
                version information.<br/>
                Because of that, I suggested a change to the Logback codebase that would make my life quite a bit easier
                while it wouldn't have a negative impact on the rest. It could even increase the general logging speed
                a bit. I hope that Ceki will be able to implement it in time for Logback 0.9.12.<br/>
                Feel free to take a look at <a href="http://jira.qos.ch/browse/LBCLASSIC-46">LBCLASSIC-46</a> if you like
                more specific informations.
            </dd>
            <dt>Why is there no case-insensitive search?</dt>
            <dd>
                Well, to be honest, this has two reasons:
                <ul>
                    <li>Case-insensitive searching has quite a performance impact because every checked String has
                        to be either lower- or uppercased.<br />
                        Beside that, lower- and uppercasing is Locale-dependent.
                        This means that there is no way to do it reliably for every given unicode string.</li>
                    <li>I have simply no idea how to add that option in a way that is both userfriendly and
                        applicable to the current condition implementation.</li>
                </ul>
            </dd>
            <dt>Why is there no tree-view of the logger names as <a href="http://logging.apache.org/chainsaw/">Chainsaw</a>
                and <a href="http://vigilog.sourceforge.net/">Vigilog</a> have?</dt>
            <dd>
                One of the problems I'm facing is the (possibly) large amount of events I'm supporting.<br/>
                This means that the logger names need to be saved upon reception separately from the events themselves.
                Otherwise all events would need scanning if an inactive logging files was reopened and this would
                take quite some time.<br/>
                Something like that is in development but it doesn't have a very high priority right now for the
                following reasons:
                <ul>
                    <li>I, personally, didn't use Chainsaws tree-view very much.</li>
                    <li>You can get a similar behavior using the filters already present in Lilith.</li>
                    <li>The tree-view itself would use valuable space on the screen. even if it could be toggled on and off.</li>
                    <li>I'm currently not in the mood to implement it just for "me too" reasons.</li>
                </ul>
            </dd>
        </dl>

    <p><a href="#top">Back to top.</a></p>
	</body>
</html>