<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
	PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
	"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
	<title>Keyboard</title>
	<link href="help.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p><a href="index.xhtml">ToC</a></p>

<h1 id="top">Keyboard</h1>

<h2>Notation</h2>
<dl>
	<dt>^</dt>
	<dd>represents the system dependent command key, e.g. &quot;Ctrl&quot; on Windows and &quot;cmd ⌘&quot; on macOS.</dd>
	<dt>alt</dt>
	<dd>represents &quot;Alt&quot; (&quot;alt ⌥&quot; on Mac).</dd>
	<dt>⇧</dt>
	<dd>represents &quot;Shift&quot;.</dd>
	<dt>↵</dt>
	<dd>represents &quot;Enter&quot; or &quot;Return&quot;.</dd>
</dl>

<h2>File</h2>
<dl>
	<dt>^+O</dt>
	<dd>Open…</dd>
	<dt>^+⇧+O</dt>
	<dd>Open inactive log…</dd>
	<dt>^+⇧+X</dt>
	<dd>Clean all inactive logs</dd>
	<dt>^+⇧+I</dt>
	<dd>Import…</dd>
	<dt>^+⇧+E</dt>
	<dd>Export…</dd>
	<dt>^+COMMA</dt>
	<dd>Preferences…<br/>Open Preferences.</dd>
	<dt>^+Q</dt>
	<dd>Exit<br/>Exit Lilith.<br/>No, I won&apos;t ask you for permission. I will only ask for permission if you make me do so in Preferences, though. :p</dd>
</dl>

<h2>Edit</h2>
<dl>
	<dt>^+C</dt>
	<dd>Copy selection<br/>Copies the selection to the clipboard.</dd>
	<dt>^+D</dt>
	<dd>Go to source<br/>Show source in IDE if Lilith plugin is installed.</dd>
	<dt>^+⇧+V</dt>
	<dd>Paste StackTraceElement<br/>Paste StackTraceElement from clipboard and open code in IDE if Lilith plugin is installed.</dd>
	<dt>^+⇧+C</dt>
	<dd>Copy message<br/>Copies the message of the logging event to the clipboard.</dd>
	<dt>^+⇧+alt+C</dt>
	<dd>Copy message pattern<br/>Copies the message pattern of the logging event to the clipboard.</dd>
	<dt>^+⇧+N</dt>
	<dd>Copy logger name<br/>Copies the logger name of the logging event to the clipboard.</dd>
	<dt>^+⇧+T</dt>
	<dd>Copy Throwable<br/>Copies the Throwable of the logging event to the clipboard.</dd>
	<dt>^+⇧+alt+T</dt>
	<dd>Copy Throwable name<br/>Copies the Throwable class name of the logging event to the clipboard.</dd>
	<dt>^+⇧+S</dt>
	<dd>Copy call location<br/>Copies the call location, i.e. the first element of the logging events call stack, to the clipboard.</dd>
	<dt>^+⇧+alt+S</dt>
	<dd>Copy call stack<br/>Copies the call stack of the logging event to the clipboard.</dd>
</dl>

<h2>Search</h2>
<dl>
	<dt>^+F</dt>
	<dd>Find<br/>Opens the Find panel.</dd>
	<dt>^+⇧+F</dt>
	<dd>Reset find</dd>
	<dt>^+G</dt>
	<dd>Find previous<br/>Find previous match of the current filter.</dd>
	<dt>^+⇧+G</dt>
	<dd>Find next<br/>Find next match of the current filter.</dd>
	<dt>^+L</dt>
	<dd>Find previous active<br/>Find previous match of any active condition.</dd>
	<dt>^+⇧+L</dt>
	<dd>Find next active<br/>Find next match of any active condition.</dd>
	<dt>^+I</dt>
	<dd>Save condition…<br/>Save the condition of the current view.</dd>
	<dt>^+U</dt>
	<dd>Show unfiltered<br/>Show selected event in unfiltered view.</dd>
</dl>

<h2>View</h2>
<dl>
	<dt>^+T</dt>
	<dd>Tail<br/>Tail (&quot;scroll to bottom&quot;)</dd>
	<dt>^+K</dt>
	<dd>Clear<br/>Clear this view.</dd>
	<dt>^+⇧+A</dt>
	<dd>Attach/Detach<br/>Attach or detach the current view.</dd>
	<dt>^+⇧+D</dt>
	<dd>Disconnect<br/>Terminates this connection.</dd>
	<dt>^+E</dt>
	<dd>Focus events<br/>Focus the table containing the events.</dd>
	<dt>^+M</dt>
	<dd>Focus message<br/>Focus detailed message view.</dd>
	<dt>^+B</dt>
	<dd>Edit source name…<br/>Edit the source name of the current view.</dd>
	<dt>^+PERIOD (also: ^+[mouse wheel up])</dt>
	<dd>Zoom in<br/>Zoom in on the details view.</dd>
	<dt>^+⇧+PERIOD (also: ^+[mouse wheel down])</dt>
	<dd>Zoom out<br/>Zoom out on the details view.</dd>
	<dt>^+J</dt>
	<dd>Next view</dd>
	<dt>^+⇧+J</dt>
	<dd>Previous view</dd>
	<dt>^+W</dt>
	<dd>Close this filter</dd>
	<dt>^+⇧+W</dt>
	<dd>Close all other filters</dd>
</dl>

<h2>Window</h2>
<dl>
	<dt>^+⇧+alt+W</dt>
	<dd>Close all</dd>
	<dt>^+R</dt>
	<dd>Remove inactive</dd>
	<dt>^+0</dt>
	<dd>Lilith events<br/>Opens the internal Lilith logging events. Take a look here if you have mysterious problems.</dd>
	<dt>^+1</dt>
	<dd>Global logging events<br/>Opens the global logging events. You can enable or disable global logs in Preferences =&gt; General =&gt; &quot;Enable global logs.&quot;.</dd>
	<dt>^+2</dt>
	<dd>Global access events<br/>Opens the global access events. You can enable or disable global logs in Preferences =&gt; General =&gt; &quot;Enable global logs.&quot;.</dd>
</dl>

<h2>Help</h2>
<dl>
	<dt>F1</dt>
	<dd>Help Topics…</dd>
</dl>

<p><a href="#top">Back to top.</a></p>
</body>
</html>
