<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
     PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
     "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>Sources, Source-Names &amp; Source-Lists</title>
		<link href="help.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<p><a href="index.xhtml">ToC</a></p>

		<h1><a name="top">Sources, Source-Names  &amp; Source-Lists</a></h1>

        <h2><a name="sources">Sources</a></h2>
        <p>Sources are the origin of events that are recived by Lilith. The typical source identifier is the IP address
            of the machine sending the event. This would be "127.0.0.1" in case of your own computer.</p>
        <p><a href="#top">Back to top.</a></p>

        <h2><a name="sourceNames">Source-Names</a></h2>
        <p>It's possible to give a certain source a name, e.g. the source "127.0.0.1" would likely be named "localhost",
            using "View" =&gt; "Edit source name...".
            The shortcut for this functionality is *command*-B.<br/>
            Named sources are used in two places:
            </p>
        <ul>
            <li>They are shown in the title of a view window so it's easier to see where the events are originating from.
                Names better suited for this than simply ip addresses.</li>
            <li>
                The can be added to <a href="#sourceLists">source lists</a> which can then be used to either white- or black-list the receiving of
                events from that sources.
            </li>
        </ul>

        <p><a href="#top">Back to top.</a></p>

        <h2><a name="sourceLists">Source-Lists</a></h2>
        <p>Source-Lists can be used to either white- or black-list on the contained sources.<br/>
            In case of white-listing, only events from sources <b>contained</b> in the selected source list are accepted.<br/>
            In case of black-listing, only events from sources <b>not contained</b> in the selected source list are accepted.<br/>
        </p>
        <p>This functionality is mostly useful if you constantly receive events from a large amount of different applications and
            would like to temporarily work with only a subset of these.</p>
        <p>You could, for example, create a source list that contains only "127.0.0.1" and white-list on that source list
            to receive only events originating from your own computer.</p>
        <p><a href="#top">Back to top.</a></p>

	</body>
</html>