<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
	PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
	"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
	<title>The story of Lilith</title>
	<link href="help.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p><a href="index.xhtml">ToC</a></p>

<h1 id="top">The story of Lilith</h1>

<p> I finished a quick LogBACK compatibility hack for Chainsaw on 2007-05-19 and realized
	that it wouldn't do at all. It exploded under heavy load and would freeze our webapp in the process.
	I could fix this specific problem with another quick hack as an interim solution but Chainsaw would've
	required a *significant* amount of cleanup work.</p>

<p>So I decided to just do a fresh, clean and modern (JDK 1.5) implementation
	of a LogBACK Event Viewer instead.</p>

<p>The first functional but very limited prototype was released on 2007-06-25 and is under heavy production use
	ever since that point of time.</p>

<h2 id="similar">Similar Software</h2>

<h3><a href="http://logging.apache.org/chainsaw/index.html">Chainsaw</a></h3>
<p>Chainsaw v2 is a companion application to Log4j written by members of the Log4j development community.
	Like a number of Open Source projects, this new version was built upon inspirations, ideas and creations
	of others. Chainsaw v2 has it's roots from the original Chainsaw utility written by Oliver Burn,
	and with inspiration from the Log Factor 5 utility contributed by ThoughtWorks Inc.</p>

<h3>LogFactor5</h3>
<p>This is the predecessor of Chainsaw. I wasn't able to find any current documentation about it but
it is still contained in the log4j release.</p>
<p>To start it, execute
<code>java -cp log4j-1.2.15.jar org.apache.log4j.lf5.StartLogFactor5</code></p>

<h3><a href="http://vigilog.sourceforge.net/">Vigilog</a></h3>
<p>This application is a viewer for Log4j and java.util.logging XML log files.</p>

<h3><a href="http://jlogviewer.sourceforge.net/">Java Log Viewer (JLogViewer)</a></h3>
<p>JLogViewer is a lightweight pure java graphical application to easily view and
manage log files generated by the "java.util.logging" package. So far it can
handle only  file formatted with the "XMLFormatter" class.</p>

<h3><a href="http://code.google.com/p/otroslogviewer/">Otros log viewer/parser</a></h3>
<p>Useful software for analysing applications logs/traces. Includes parsers for java.util.logging and
log4j layouts.</p>
<h3><a href="http://code.google.com/p/firewood/">firewood</a></h3>
<p>This project is still in the planning phase but seems to have a similar scope.</p>

<p>If you write a similar tool or know anything about one I'll be happy to add it to the above list.
Competition is good and helps to innovate! ;)
</p>

<p><a href="#top">Back to top.</a></p>
</body>
</html>
