<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>Lilith 0.9.37</title>
		<link href="help.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>Lilith 0.9.37</h1>

		<div>
		<a class="download" href="http://sourceforge.net/projects/lilith/files/lilith/0.9.37">Download Now!
		<br />(Released: 2009-11-xx)</a>
		</div>
		
		<h2>Changes</h2>
		<ul>
			<li>
			Change of active Conditions was not repainting views. This was only the case in internal betas.
			<br/>This was reported by Alfred.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/75">Ticket 75</a>)			
			</li>
			
			<li>
			Removed additivity from the debug loggers. Debug logger events won't show up in the
			Lilith log or the console.
			</li>

			<li>
			Prevented duplicate start of application by the same user.
			<br/>Duplicate startup by a different user is still possible but quite useless until the event receivers are configurable.
			<br/>This was requested by Joe.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/74">Ticket 74</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Enhanced debug dialog. Better layout and tooltips.
			</li>
			
			<li>
			Added option to disable the creation of statistics.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/4">Ticket 4</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Added "Copy call location" action. This is quite useful in combination with the
			CallLocation condition.
			</li>
			
			<li>
			Added CallLocation condition that returns true if the first element of the call stack
			equals the given StackTraceElement.
			</li>

			<li>
			Added option to disable global logs.
			<br/>This was requested by Joe.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/73">Ticket 73</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Preventing saved conditions with duplicate name or condition.
			</li>
			
			<li>
			The Appenders are now supporting the "Adder-Idiom" that is common for Logback appenders.
			<br/>You can now use multiple &lt;RemoteHost&gt; tags to define the remote hosts.
			</li>

			<li>
			Replaced JCheckboxMenuItem in Window menu with a JMenuItem containing an Icon if the entry has a frame.
			</li>

			<li>
			Toolbar of mainframe was not switched active after attach.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/71">Ticket 71</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Toolbar of mainframe stayed active after detach.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/70">Ticket 70</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Removed appBuildNumber from title. It was annoying at best.
			</li>

			<li>
			Enhanced "Check for update" dialog.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/68">Ticket 68</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Implement optional "Tip of the Day" dialog.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/22">Ticket 22</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Added "Level>=" as a native default condition to increase performance.
			</li>

			<li>
			Copy actions are now working correctly in case of external frames.<br/>
			This was reported by Matthias "Alfred" Neumann.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/67">Ticket 67</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Updated protobuf to 2.2.0.
			</li>

			<li>
			Jumping to the unfiltered event didn't work the first time if Tail was enabled.<br/>
			This was reported by Joe.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/66">Ticket 66</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Preferences dialog can now be closed by pressing Enter.<br/>
			This was suggested by Vlad Satanovski.
			</li>

			<li>
			Table and message view are now having reasonable preferred sizes (needed because of splitpane).
			</li>

			<li>
			Replaced tabs of event view with a combobox.<br/>
			The combobox is only visible if there are filtered views. There's also more room
			for the condition string.<br/>
			Something like this was suggested by Scott Stanton and Joe.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/58">Ticket 58</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Added "Execute GC" to Troubleshooting.
			</li>

			<li>
			Added option to show/hide the statusbar.
			</li>

			<li>
			Added option to show/hide the toolbar.<br/>
			This was suggested by Scott Stanton, Ekkehard Gentz and Joe.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/57">Ticket 57</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Added "Context" column for logging events.
			</li>

			<li>
			Updated keyboard help. Better symbol for "Ctrl"/"cmd".
			</li>

			<li>
			Added "Troubleshooting..." menu item in "Help" menu as a shortcut to the throubleshooting
			section of Preferences.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/65">Ticket 65</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Added new command "Copy Properties" to Troubleshooting section of Preferences.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/65">Ticket 65</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Removed useless Statistics action for current source.
			Statistics can be obtained using "Window" &gt; "Statistics".
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/24">Ticket 24</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Added persistent zoom-in (*command* .) and zoom-out (*command* shift .) of details view.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/59">Ticket 59</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Events did sometimes show up twice in filtered views.
			This was caused by a classic off-by-one error.<br/>
			Reported by Joe.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/64">Ticket 64</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Fixed a remaining hang in the multiplex appenders in case of certain network problems.
			</li>

			<li>
			Updated Groovy to 1.6.5.
			</li>
			
			<li>
			Updated Logback to 0.9.17.<br/>
			This fixes issue 63 that was caused by a Logback bug. Thanks for the fast fix, Ceki!
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/63">Ticket 63</a>)			
			</li>
		</ul>
		
		
		<h2>Known Issues</h2>
		<ul>
		
			<li>Mac OS X 10.5 + 10.6:
			<br/>Shortcuts/Accelerators are not working if both the "Tip of the Day" and "Check for Update" dialogs show after startup.
			<br/>This seems to be a bug in the Java implementation from Apple.
			<br/>See <a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/72">Ticket 72</a>.
			</li>
		
			<li>Selection in the HTML view is currently somewhat buggy, especially in case of scaled view.
				This is a limitation of Flying Saucer that's used as the XHTML renderer.
			</li>
		</ul>

		
		<h2>Previous Versions</h2>
		<ul>
			<li><a href="http://lilith.huxhorn.de/releases/0.9.36.xhtml">0.9.36</a></li>
		</ul>

	</body>
</html>

