<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>Lilith 0.9.40</title>
		<link href="help.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>Lilith 0.9.40</h1>

		<div>
		<a class="download" href="http://sourceforge.net/projects/lilith/files/lilith/0.9.40">Download Now!
		<br />(Released: 2010-xx-xx)</a>
		</div>

		<h2>Changes</h2>
		<ul>
			<li>
				Color-Schemes (as used by saved conditions, for example) can now be defined partially, i.e. one condition
				can set a border while the text-color might be defined by a different condition.
			</li>
			<li>
				Maps, e.g. MDC, are now sorted by key-value in the details view.
				<br/>This was suggested by Joe.
			</li>
			<li>
				Added preferences to check for pre-release versions in addition to release versions. Off by default.
			</li>
			<li>
				Added -T/--print-timestamp command line argument that prints the timestamp and date of build.
			</li>
			<li>
				If the used version is a SNAPSHOT, Lilith will always check for a new SNAPSHOT pre-release regardless
				of the "Check for updates on startup." settings.
			</li>
			<li>
				Enhanced "Check for update" functionality.
				<br/>No more false update warnings in case of SNAPSHOT pre-releases. A new release takes precedence over a new pre-release.
			</li>
			<li>
				SNAPSHOT pre-releases will now contain the date and time of the build in the window title.
			</li>
			<li>
				Added support for java.util.logging SocketHandler. Lilith is listening on port 11020 for incoming connections.
				<br/>I'd still recommend to switch to SLF4J/Logback, though!
				<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/35">Ticket 35</a>)
			</li>
			<li>
				Added JSON-Appenders and JSON-Receivers.<br />
				Lilith is listening for message-based JSON-Events on port 10030 (uncompressed) and 10031 (compressed).<br />
				Zero-delimited JSON-Events are consumed on port 11010.<br />
				Check out the <a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/wiki/LilithJsonFormat">expected JSON data</a>.
			</li>
			<li>
				Replaced Commons-CLI with JCommander. Very nice replacement.<br />
				I'd like to take this opportunity to thank <a href="http://twitter.com/cbeust">Cédric Beust</a> for his great (and fast!) support!<br />
				You should seriously check <a href="http://beust.com/jcommander/">JCommander</a> out if your application is handling command line arguments at all.
			</li>
			<li>
				Added support for Log4j SocketAppender. Lilith is listening on port 4445 for incoming connections.
				<br/>I'd still recommend to switch to SLF4J/Logback, though!
				<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/32">Ticket 32</a>)
			</li>
			<li>
				Fixed glitch in case of "Find next"/"Find prev" while search is already running. Additional searches are now ignored.
			</li>
			<li>
				Added "Find previous active" (*command* T) and "Find next active" (*command* shift T) functionality
				to quickly jump to events that match any active condition.
				<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/93">Ticket 93</a>)
			</li>
			<li>
				Added "Export" functionality which exports the currently selected view into a Lilith file.
				<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/92">Ticket 92</a>)
			</li>
			<li>
				Added default condition name to preferences. It's preselected for every new view.<br />
				This was suggested by Lothar Cezanne.
			</li>
			<li>
				Polling events every 100ms instead of every 2s.<br />
				This results in less congestion and a much snappier feeling.
			</li>
			<li>
				Fixed deployment of site.<br />
				See <a href="http://sulky.huxhorn.de/projects/">sulky</a> and <a href="http://lilith.huxhorn.de/projects/">lilith</a>.
			</li>
			<li>
				Added --export-preferences &lt;file&gt; and --import-preferences &lt;file&gt;
				commandline options to be able to export and import all preferences.
				<br/>This was requested by Gareth Doutch (gdoutch).
				<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/81">Ticket 81</a>)
			</li>
			<li>
				Added an additional executable lilith-all.jar containing all dependencies as
				another download option.
				<br/>This was requested by Adrien Sales.
			</li>
			<li>
				Added ability to define a sound for WARN-level events, but without any assigned default sound.
				<br/>This was requested by Adrien Sales.
			</li>
			<li>
				Added F1 as shortcut for Help.
				<br/>This was requested by Adrien Sales.
			</li>
			<li>
				Fixed several issues in case of log files that are recreated by
				&lt;append&gt;false&lt;/append&gt; in FileAppender.
				<br/>Those were all raised by Jeff Jensen (jeffjensen). Thank you very much!
				<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/84">Ticket 84</a>,
				<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/88">Ticket 88</a>,
				<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/90">Ticket 90</a>)
			</li>
			<li>
				Fixed the regression that the internal Lilith log wouldn't show up in the menu anymore.
				<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/85">Ticket 85</a>)
			</li>
			<li>
				Changed update interval of opened files from 5 seconds to 1 second.
			</li>
			<li>
				Spring 3.0.5.RELEASE
			</li>
			<li>
				Groovy 1.7.5
			</li>
			<li>
				SLF4J 1.6.1
			</li>
			<li>
				Logback 0.9.26
			</li>
		</ul>

		<h2>Known Issues</h2>
		<ul>
			<li>Selection in the HTML view is currently somewhat buggy, especially in case of scaled view.
				This is a limitation of Flying Saucer that's used as the XHTML renderer.
			</li>
			<li>cat and tail are currently still experimental features.
			<br/>AccessEvent isn't (and can't be) supported yet. LoggingEvent isn't
			fully supported, either.
			</li>
		</ul>

		<h2>Previous Versions</h2>
		<ul>
			<li><a href="http://lilith.huxhorn.de/releases/0.9.39.xhtml">0.9.39</a></li>
			<li><a href="http://lilith.huxhorn.de/releases/0.9.38.xhtml">0.9.38</a></li>
			<li><a href="http://lilith.huxhorn.de/releases/0.9.37.xhtml">0.9.37</a></li>
			<li><a href="http://lilith.huxhorn.de/releases/0.9.36.xhtml">0.9.36</a></li>
		</ul>

	</body>
</html>

