<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>Lilith 0.9.38</title>
		<link href="help.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>Lilith 0.9.38</h1>

		<div>
		<a class="download" href="http://sourceforge.net/projects/lilith/files/lilith/0.9.38">Download Now!
		<br />(Released: 2010-03-26)</a>
		</div>
		<h2>Changes</h2>
		<ul>
		
			<li>
				Added help about using Lilith encoders in FileAppender.
			</li>

			<li>
				Added detection of outdated index files and the option to reindex a log file in that case.
				<br/>This is helpful while reopening log files created by a FileAppender.
			</li>

			<li>
				Added new modules de.huxhorn.lilith.logback.encoder.classic
				and de.huxhorn.lilith.logback.encoder.access to support writing of Lilith
				logfiles using Logback FileAppender.
				<br/>Thanks to Ceki for supporting this!
				<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/23">Ticket 23</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Added some more tips.
			</li>

			<li>
			Added shortcut for "Close all" action.
			</li>

			<li>
			Views aren't opened anymore in case of connection closed for black- or not whitelisted sources.
			<br/>This was reported by Vlad Satanovski.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/76">Ticket 76</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
			Added the ability to clear a filtered view. Doing this clears the original view and resets
			the filtered view.
			<br/>This was suggested by Joe.
			</li>
			
			<li>
			Moved BufferTableModel to new module sulky-buffers-table.
			</li>
			
			<li>
			Moved RowBasedTableModel and PersistentTableColumnModel to module sulky-swing.
			</li>
			
			<li>
            Implemented the workaround for Apple Problem ID #7240026 suggested by GalaJon.
            <br/>Thanks a lot!
            <br/>See <a href="http://bit.ly/5vF5M2">his answer on stackoverflow.com</a>.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/72">Ticket 72</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
            Of-by-one error in message renderer [+x lines].
			</li>

			<li>
            Lilith log is now showing uncaught exceptions as errors.
			</li>
			
			<li>
            Added "Uncaught Exception" debug action.
			</li>
			
			<li>
            The find panel has been heavily refactored.
            <br/>Instead of a text-field it now features a combobox containing the previous 15 searches that were used
            for filtered views. Additionally, there's a new filter type "Named" that populates the combobox with
            named/saved conditions. Similarly, selecting "Level>=" populates the combobox with the correct values
            from TRACE to ERROR. The comboboxes, both filter type selection and filter text, feature autocompletion
            of entered text.
            <br/>This was suggested by Joe.
			<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/50">Ticket 50</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
            Groovy 1.7.0
			</li>
			
			<li>
            Logback 0.9.19
			</li>
			
			<li>
            SLF4J 1.5.11
			</li>

		</ul>
		
		
		<h2>Known Issues</h2>
		<ul>
			<li>Selection in the HTML view is currently somewhat buggy, especially in case of scaled view.
				This is a limitation of Flying Saucer that's used as the XHTML renderer.
			</li>
		</ul>

		
		<h2>Previous Versions</h2>
		<ul>
			<li><a href="http://lilith.huxhorn.de/releases/0.9.37.xhtml">0.9.37</a></li>
			<li><a href="http://lilith.huxhorn.de/releases/0.9.36.xhtml">0.9.36</a></li>
		</ul>

	</body>
</html>

