<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>Lilith 0.9.39</title>
		<link href="help.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>Lilith 0.9.39</h1>

		<div>
		<a class="download" href="http://sourceforge.net/projects/lilith/files/lilith/0.9.39">Download Now!
		<br />(Released: 2010-05-12)</a>
		</div>
		
		<h2>Changes</h2>
		<ul>
			<li>
				Added some error messages.
			</li>

			<li>
				Added "recent files" menu.
				<br/>This was requested by Jeff Jensen (jeffjensen).
				<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/83">Ticket 83</a>)			
			</li>
		
			<li>
				lilith.bat does not strictly require a %JAVA_HOME% environment variable anymore.
				<br/>This was requested by Gareth Doutch (gdoutch).
				<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/80">Ticket 80</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
				Added special icons for views opened from a file, different ones for refreshing (Lilith) and
				non-refreshing (imported) ones.
				<br/>They arguably suck a little bit. ;)
				<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/48">Ticket 48</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
				Added automatic refreshing of opened Lilith files. This should work but isn't tested
				very thoroughly, yet.
				<br/>This was requested by Jeff Jensen (jeffjensen).
				<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/84">Ticket 84</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
				Added cat (-c) and tail (-t, -f) functionality to Lilith so it's possible to print entries
				of binary Lilith log-files to the console. Number of printed entries can be
				configured using -n. The format string of for the event can be given at runtime.
				<br/>Unfortunately, this is only possible with Logback-Classic, not Logback-Access.
				<br/>The reason for
				this shortcoming is <a href="http://jira.qos.ch/browse/LBACCESS-12">LBACCESS-12</a>.
				<br/>
				<br/>The following parts of LoggingEvent aren't supported yet:
				<ul>
					<li>LoggerContextVO</li>
					<li>IThrowableProxy</li>
					<li>Marker</li>
				</ul>
			</li>

			<li>
				Removed LogbackClassic appender from default logback.xml of Lilith to prevent warning during
				startup. Those would be especially annoying in case of cat or tail.
				<br/>This is a workaround for <a href="http://jira.qos.ch/browse/LBCLASSIC-156">LBCLASSIC-156</a>.
			</li>
		
			<li>
				Changed autocomplete of find combos from uber-annoying case-insensitive 
				swingx to much less annoying case-sensitive Glazed Lists.
				<br/>This annoyed Alfred and me.
			</li>

			<li>
				Neither "Window" menu nor status bar did update properly if
				"Automatically open new views on connection." was deselected.
				<br/>This bug was found by Joe.
				<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/82">Ticket 82</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
				Changed the license of all files previously licensed as LGPLv3
				to both LGPLv3 and ASLv2 instead. Use whichever license suits
				you better.
				<br/>This was requested by Ekkehard Gentz.
			</li>

			<li>
				Added option to maximize internal frames by default. This is actually very good idea!
				<br/>This was suggested by snstanton.
				<br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/77">Ticket 77</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
				Added contextName and/or applicationIdentifier to the title of the frames.
				<br/>This was suggested by Alfred &amp; Joe.
			</li>

			<li>
                It wasn't possible to cancel an exit-request executed by closing the main frame.
                <br/>This bug was found by Gareth Doutch (gdoutch).
                <br/>(<a href="http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/lilith/ticket/79">Ticket 79</a>)			
			</li>

			<li>
				Replaced all &lt;layout&gt; with &lt;encoder&gt; in logback*.xml.
				<br/>See <a href="http://logback.qos.ch/codes.html#layoutInsteadOfEncoder">Logback documentation</a> for info.
			</li>

			<li>
				Logback 0.9.21
			</li>
			
			<li>
				SLF4J 1.6.0
			</li>
			
			<li>
				commons-cli 1.2
			</li>

			<li>
				httpclient 4.0.1
			</li>
			
			<li>
                Groovy 1.7.2
			</li>
		</ul>
		
		
		<h2>Known Issues</h2>
		<ul>
			<li>Selection in the HTML view is currently somewhat buggy, especially in case of scaled view.
				This is a limitation of Flying Saucer that's used as the XHTML renderer.
			</li>
			<li>cat and tail are currently still experimental features.
			<br/>AccessEvent isn't (and can't be) supported yet. LoggingEvent isn't
			fully supported, either.
			</li>
		</ul>

		
		<h2>Previous Versions</h2>
		<ul>
			<li><a href="http://lilith.huxhorn.de/releases/0.9.38.xhtml">0.9.38</a></li>
			<li><a href="http://lilith.huxhorn.de/releases/0.9.37.xhtml">0.9.37</a></li>
			<li><a href="http://lilith.huxhorn.de/releases/0.9.36.xhtml">0.9.36</a></li>
		</ul>

		<h2>Next Version</h2>
		<a href="http://lilith.huxhorn.de/releases/0.9.40.xhtml">0.9.40</a>
	</body>
</html>

