<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
		<title>Lilith 8.1.1 Release Notes</title>
		<link href="help.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>Lilith 8.1.1</h1>
		<div>
			<a class="download" href="http://sourceforge.net/projects/lilith/files/lilith/8.1.1">Download Now!
		<br />(Released: 2017-03-17)</a>
		</div>
		<p>This minor update mainly upgrades slf4j and logback versions to address
		<a href="https://github.com/huxi/lilith/issues/29">a problem concerning serialized events with Markers</a>.</p>
		<p>Make sure to upgrade the versions in your application to slf4j 1.7.25 and logback 1.2.2.</p>
		<p>See release notes of <a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/8.1.0.xhtml">8.1.0</a> for the full list of changes.</p>
		<p>This version of Lilith demands Java 8 update 121 or higher and will says so if you try to start it with an older version. It has also been tested with Java 9-ea+158.</p>
		<p>You can still receive event from previous versions so if your application is still running Java 7 or lower just keep using the 0.9.44 artifacts.<br />
		Keep in mind that <a href="http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/eol-135779.html">Java SE 7 End of Public Updates</a> has already been reached.</p>
		<h2>Changelog</h2>
		<h3>Added</h3>
		<ul>
			<li>Added dependency versions to Troubleshooting section of preferences. This was suggested in <a href="https://github.com/huxi/lilith/issues/29">issue #29</a> by <a href="https://github.com/Pesegato">@Pesegato</a>.</li>
		</ul>
		<h3>Changed</h3>
		<ul>
			<li>Nothing.</li>
		</ul>
		<h3>Deprecated</h3>
		<ul>
			<li>Nothing.</li>
		</ul>
		<h3>Removed</h3>
		<ul>
			<li>Nothing.</li>
		</ul>
		<h3>Fixed</h3>
		<ul>
			<li>cglib 3.2.5, slf4j 1.7.25, logback 1.2.2</li>
		</ul>
		<h3>Security</h3>
		<ul>
			<li>Nothing.</li>
		</ul>
		<h3>Known issues</h3>
		<ul>
			<li>logback-access <code>AccessEvent</code> sent by <code>SocketAppender</code> isn't guaranteed to be deserializable at the moment. You can use the Lilith Multiplex Socket Appender in the meantime.
See <a href="http://jira.qos.ch/browse/LOGBACK-1182">LOGBACK-1182 - Problem deserializing AccessEvent.</a>.</li>
			<li>Logback 1.1.0 introduced some message formatting regressions.
See <a href="http://jira.qos.ch/browse/LOGBACK-1183">LOGBACK-1183 - Message formatting regression</a>.</li>
			<li><del>Binary Lilith log files will only work in case of <code>append=false</code>.</del> Implemented a workaround.
See <a href="https://jira.qos.ch/browse/LOGBACK-1257">LOGBACK-1257 - Invalid files in case of append=true and Encoder with non-null headerBytes() / footerBytes()</a></li>
			<li>log4j 1 won't be able to send <code>ClassLoaderName</code>, <code>ModuleName</code> and <code>ModuleVersion</code> for the call location of the event. Search <code>LOG4J_MODULE</code> in the source to take a look at the problem. Since <a href="https://blogs.apache.org/foundation/entry/apache_logging_services_project_announces">Log4j 1 End-Of-Life</a> has been announced 2015-08-06, chances are pretty slim that this will be fixed. Upgrade to <a href="http://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/">log4j 2</a> or <a href="https://logback.qos.ch/">Logback</a>.</li>
			<li>Flying Saucer related issues:
<ul><li>Selection in the HTML view is currently somewhat buggy, especially in case of scaled view.
See <a href="https://code.google.com/archive/p/flying-saucer/issues/79">Issue 79: SelectionHighlighter not compatible with ScalableXHTMLPanel</a>.</li><li>Jumping to anchors is currently not supported so the navigation in help and details view isn't as good as it could be.
See <a href="https://code.google.com/archive/p/flying-saucer/issues/105">Issue 105: URLs with anchors</a>.</li></ul></li>
			<li><a href="https://java.net/jira/browse/GLAZEDLISTS-469">GLAZEDLISTS-469 - AutoCompleteSupport: Arrowing down on the popup and pressing enter fails to update combobox</a> is happening in the find panel on macOS. Select the correct entry with the mouse as a workaround.</li>
		</ul>
		<h2>Previous Versions</h2>
		<ul>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/8.1.0.xhtml">8.1.0</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/8.0.0.xhtml">8.0.0</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.44.xhtml">0.9.44</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.43.xhtml">0.9.43</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.42.1.xhtml">0.9.42.1</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.42.xhtml">0.9.42</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.41.xhtml">0.9.41</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.40.xhtml">0.9.40</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.39.xhtml">0.9.39</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.38.xhtml">0.9.38</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.37.xhtml">0.9.37</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.36.xhtml">0.9.36</a>
			</li>
		</ul>
		<hr />
		<p>
		Donate in <a href="bitcoin:19UjvmrDJMBcGDYQoFcrjYPqLRFPSwznZn">Bitcoin</a>. - 19UjvmrDJMBcGDYQoFcrjYPqLRFPSwznZn<br />
		Donate in <a href="litecoin:LU6WM3nmGJy3N5PEE8yQwsAyenJs8dtbmV">Litecoin</a>. - LU6WM3nmGJy3N5PEE8yQwsAyenJs8dtbmV<br />
		Donate in <a href="dogecoin:DJC1R683hfD4VSEDAJrvNpv6GsCg8ewvhm">Dogecoin</a>. - DJC1R683hfD4VSEDAJrvNpv6GsCg8ewvhm
		</p>
	</body>
</html>
