<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
		<title>Lilith 8.1.0 Release Notes</title>
		<link href="help.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>Lilith 8.1.0</h1>
		<div>
			<a class="download" href="http://sourceforge.net/projects/lilith/files/lilith/8.1.0">Download Now!
		<br />(Released: 2017-03-15)</a>
		</div>
		<p>This version of Lilith demands Java 8 update 121 or higher and will says so if you try to start it with an older version. It has also been tested with Java 9-ea+158.</p>
		<p>You can still receive event from previous versions so if your application is still running Java 7 or lower just keep using the 0.9.44 artifacts.<br />
		Keep in mind that <a href="http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/eol-135779.html">Java SE 7 End of Public Updates</a> has already been reached.</p>
		<h2>Changelog</h2>
		<h3>Added</h3>
		<ul>
			<li>Added <code>TemporalAccessor</code> support to <code>SafeString</code>.</li>
			<li>Added log4j2 <code>Marker</code> support.</li>
			<li>Added "Copy logger name" accelerator "command shift N".</li>
			<li>Added "Copy message" accelerator "command shift C".</li>
			<li>Added "Copy message pattern" accelerator "command shift alt C".</li>
			<li>Added "Copy Throwable name" action with accelerator "command shift alt T".</li>
			<li>Added "Throwable" condition.</li>
			<li>Added "Focus Throwables"/"Exclude Throwables" matching events with any Throwable.</li>
			<li>Added "Focus Throwable"/"Exclude Throwable" matching events with a specific Throwable class name.</li>
			<li>Added "Copy call location" accelerator "command shift S".</li>
			<li>Added "Copy call stack" accelerator "command shift alt S".</li>
			<li>Added "Copy request URL".</li>
			<li>Added "Copy request headers".</li>
			<li>Added "Copy request parameters".</li>
			<li>Added "Copy response headers".</li>
			<li>Added thread priority to thread info of logging event.</li>
			<li>Added "Copy thread name".</li>
			<li>Added "Copy thread group name".</li>
			<li>Added "ThreadName" condition.</li>
			<li>Added "ThreadGroupName" condition.</li>
			<li>Added "Focus Thread name"/"Exclude Thread name".</li>
			<li>Added "Focus Thread group name"/"Exclude Thread group name".</li>
			<li>Added "Focus Request URI"/"Exclude Request URI" menus.</li>
			<li>Added lots of filter tests.</li>
			<li>Added "Focus Request Parameter"/"Exclude Request Parameter".</li>
			<li>Added "Focus Request Header"/"Exclude Request Header".</li>
			<li>Added "Focus Response Header"/"Exclude Response Header".</li>
			<li>Added alternative behavior for "MDC", "Request Parameter", "Request Header" and "Response Header" Focus/Exclude menu items. Pressing <code>Alt</code> while selecting Action will match any value for the given key.</li>
			<li>Added support for <code>ClassLoaderName</code>, <code>ModuleName</code> and <code>ModuleVersion</code> in Java 9 <code>StackTraceElement</code>.</li>
			<li>Added some more tips.</li>
			<li>Added "Show unfiltered" accelerator "command U". Also added the action to the "Search" menu.</li>
			<li>Added "Go to source" accelerator "command D". Also added the action to the "Edit" menu.</li>
		</ul>
		<h3>Changed</h3>
		<ul>
			<li>Using <code>java.time.format</code> instead of <code>SimpleDateFormat</code>.</li>
			<li>Don't create copy of whitelist Set in <code>WhitelistObjectInputStream</code>.</li>
			<li>Demand Java 8 <code>1.8.0_121</code>.</li>
			<li>Added option to start application even if Java version requirements are not met.</li>
			<li>Changed accelerator of "Copy Throwable" from "command shift alt T" to "command shift T".</li>
			<li>Changed specification of HTTP status code 451 from draft to RFC 7725.</li>
			<li>Changed meaning of <code>ThrowableCondition</code>. Condition now evaluates to true if search string is one of the <code>Throwable</code> contained in the hierarchy (including cause, suppressed) instead of only checking the root exception.</li>
			<li><code>EventContainsCondition</code> is now evaluating <code>Throwable</code>, NDC and any contained <code>StackTraceElement</code> values.</li>
			<li><code>appendTo</code> methods of <code>ThrowableInfo</code> and <code>ExtendedStackTraceElement</code> now throw a <code>NullPointerException</code> if <code>StringBuilder</code> is <code>null</code>.</li>
			<li><code>ExtendedStackTraceElement.appendExtended</code> is now private.</li>
			<li><code>ExtendedStackTraceElement.toString(true)</code> is now printing <code>"na"</code> instead of empty string if codeLocation or version is null.</li>
			<li><code>HttpStatusTypeCondition</code> understands more input. "SUCCESSFUL", "su", "2", "2X" and " 2x " will all evaluate to <code>HttpStatus.Type.SUCCESSFUL</code>.</li>
			<li><code>CallLocationCondition</code> understands more input. "at " and whitespace is now automatically removed.</li>
			<li><code>HttpRemoteUserCondition</code> is less strict. String is first trimmed for both condition and remote user of event. Empty string and "-" are both considered "no user name" and the condition matches accordingly.</li>
			<li><code>MDCContainsCondition</code> without value will now match if the MDC of an event contains any value (even null) for the given key.</li>
			<li><code>SafeString</code>/<code>MessageFormatter</code> changes. Those only have an effect if Lilith appenders are used.
<ul><li><code>String</code> instances contained in <code>Collection</code>, <code>Map</code> or <code>Object[]</code> are now wrapped in apostrophes. This means that an empty <code>Set</code> will look differently than one containing an empty <code>String</code>. Similarly, a <code>null</code> element will look differently than <code>'null'</code>.</li><li><code>Map</code> instances are now formatted in Groovy style (<code>[key:value, key2:value2]</code>) instead of Java style (<code>{key=value, key2=value2}</code>).</li><li><code>byte[]</code>, <code>Byte[]</code> and <code>Byte</code> are now converted to hex values. Because <code>[0xCA, 0xFE, 0xBA, 0xBE]</code> has better readability than <code>[-54, -2, -70, -66]</code>.</li><li>This is not a compatibility contest. It's about usability.</li></ul></li>
			<li>"Paste StackTraceElement" (command shift V) is now much more effective. It parses the text from the clipboard and opens the first <code>StackTraceElement</code> it finds in IDEA (if the necessary IDEA plugin is installed). Parsing is much more lenient.</li>
			<li>Using <code>SafeString</code> for "Copy MDC".</li>
			<li>Details view is now showing all available thread information.</li>
			<li>XML is now handled by Woodstox.</li>
			<li>Moved "Logger" in "Focus"/"Exclude" menus from bottom to top.</li>
			<li><code>applicationUUID</code> is now actually a <a href="https://github.com/alizain/ulid">ULID</a>. The existing methods <code>setCreatingUUID</code>/<code>isCreatingUUID</code> and <code>getUUID</code> in the multiplex appenders are not renamed for compatibility reasons. ULID generation is handled in the new <code>de.huxhorn.sulky:de.huxhorn.sulky.ulid</code> module.</li>
			<li>Activated automatic graphics switching on Mac, i.e. don't demand the high-performance, energy-hungry GPU. This fixes <a href="https://github.com/huxi/lilith/issues/27">issue #27</a>. Thanks to Nikita Belenkiy for the detailed issue.</li>
			<li>Enhanced preferences dialog. This fixes <a href="https://github.com/huxi/lilith/issues/17">issue #17</a>.</li>
		</ul>
		<h3>Deprecated</h3>
		<ul>
			<li>Nothing.</li>
		</ul>
		<h3>Removed</h3>
		<ul>
			<li>Removed <code>SourceInfo</code> and related classes. They were all unused and also terrible.</li>
			<li>Removed <code>LoggingEvents</code> and related classes. Same as above.</li>
			<li>Removed <code>AccessEvents</code> and related classes. Same as above.</li>
			<li>Removed unused methods <code>getTextColor()</code>, <code>getBackgroundColor()</code> and <code>getBorderColor()</code> of class <code>SavedCondition</code>.</li>
			<li>Removed unused c'tors in <code>AbstractFilterAction</code>, <code>AbstractLoggingFilterAction</code> and <code>AbstractAccessFilterAction</code>.</li>
			<li>Removed RRD statistics.</li>
			<li>Removed unused SenderService and jMDNS.</li>
			<li>Removed unused and broken <code>UserNotificationLoggingEventHandler</code> and <code>UserNotificationAccessEventHandler</code>.</li>
			<li>Removed macify to ensure Java 9 compatibility.</li>
			<li>Removed <code>de.huxhorn.lilith.jul-slf4j-handler</code>. Use <code>org.slf4j:jul-to-slf4j</code> and enable <code>ch.qos.logback.classic.jul.LevelChangePropagator</code> instead.</li>
			<li>Removed Substance look &amp; feel. The <a href="https://github.com/Insubstantial/insubstantial/">Insubstantial</a> fork is broken in Java 9 and isn't maintained anymore. The just-revived original <a href="https://github.com/kirill-grouchnikov/substance">substance</a> won't provide Maven artifacts because those are just <a href="https://github.com/kirill-grouchnikov/substance/issues/20#issuecomment-282442844">"the latest chic"</a>.</li>
			<li>Removed JGoodies look &amp; feel. The current version is broken in Java 9 and the next version will be closed-source and payware.</li>
		</ul>
		<h3>Fixed</h3>
		<ul>
			<li>Make frames entirely visible after selecting them from the Windows Menu.</li>
			<li>Added some more classes to deserialization whitelist. The missing classes prevented deserialization of some log4j2 events. This fixes <a href="https://github.com/huxi/lilith/issues/21">issue #21</a>.</li>
			<li>Added another class to deserialization whitelist. The missing class prevented deserialization of logback 1.2.x events.</li>
			<li>Fixed NPE in LoggingEventProtobufEncoder. This fixes <a href="https://github.com/huxi/lilith/issues/22">issue #22</a>.</li>
			<li>Fixed NPE in CheckForUpdateRunnable in case of broken network connection.</li>
			<li>Fixed handling of invalid XML created by <code>java.util.logging.XMLFormatter</code>. This fixes <a href="https://github.com/huxi/lilith/issues/26">issue #26</a>.</li>
			<li>Being less strict about the required Java version. It seems certain Linux distros have a Java version string like <code>1.8.0_66-internal</code> which is - strictly speaking - less than <code>1.8.0_66</code> since <code>-internal</code> is a pre-release identifier. Lilith will now accept versions like this if ignoring the pre-release identifier satisfies the version requirement.</li>
			<li>Making sure selected event is reset when last view is closed.</li>
			<li>log4j2 2.8.1, slf4j 1.7.24, Logback 1.2.1, jackson 2.8.7, Spring 4.3.7, Groovy 2.4.9, aspectj 1.8.10, httpclient 4.5.3, httpcore 4.4.6, commons-io 2.5, Thymeleaf 2.1.5, protobuf 3.2.0, jcommander 1.64, commons-lang3 3.5, flying-saucer 9.1.4</li>
		</ul>
		<h3>Security</h3>
		<ul>
			<li>Nothing.</li>
		</ul>
		<h3>Known issues</h3>
		<ul>
			<li>logback-access <code>AccessEvent</code> sent by <code>SocketAppender</code> isn't guaranteed to be deserializable at the moment. You can use the Lilith Multiplex Socket Appender in the meantime.
See <a href="http://jira.qos.ch/browse/LOGBACK-1182">LOGBACK-1182 - Problem deserializing AccessEvent.</a>.</li>
			<li>Logback 1.1.0 introduced some message formatting regressions.
See <a href="http://jira.qos.ch/browse/LOGBACK-1183">LOGBACK-1183 - Message formatting regression</a>.</li>
			<li><del>Binary Lilith log files will only work in case of <code>append=false</code>.</del> Implemented a workaround.
See <a href="https://jira.qos.ch/browse/LOGBACK-1257">LOGBACK-1257 - Invalid files in case of append=true and Encoder with non-null headerBytes() / footerBytes()</a></li>
			<li>log4j 1 won't be able to send <code>ClassLoaderName</code>, <code>ModuleName</code> and <code>ModuleVersion</code> for the call location of the event. Search <code>LOG4J_MODULE</code> in the source to take a look at the problem. Since <a href="https://blogs.apache.org/foundation/entry/apache_logging_services_project_announces">Log4j 1 End-Of-Life</a> has been announced 2015-08-06, chances are pretty slim that this will be fixed. Upgrade to <a href="http://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/">log4j 2</a> or <a href="https://logback.qos.ch/">Logback</a>.</li>
			<li>Flying Saucer related issues:
<ul><li>Selection in the HTML view is currently somewhat buggy, especially in case of scaled view.
See <a href="https://code.google.com/archive/p/flying-saucer/issues/79">Issue 79: SelectionHighlighter not compatible with ScalableXHTMLPanel</a>.</li><li>Jumping to anchors is currently not supported so the navigation in help and details view isn't as good as it could be.
See <a href="https://code.google.com/archive/p/flying-saucer/issues/105">Issue 105: URLs with anchors</a>.</li></ul></li>
			<li><a href="https://java.net/jira/browse/GLAZEDLISTS-469">GLAZEDLISTS-469 - AutoCompleteSupport: Arrowing down on the popup and pressing enter fails to update combobox</a> is happening in the find panel on macOS. Select the correct entry with the mouse as a workaround.</li>
		</ul>
		<h2>Previous Versions</h2>
		<ul>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/8.0.0.xhtml">8.0.0</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.44.xhtml">0.9.44</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.43.xhtml">0.9.43</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.42.1.xhtml">0.9.42.1</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.42.xhtml">0.9.42</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.41.xhtml">0.9.41</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.40.xhtml">0.9.40</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.39.xhtml">0.9.39</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.38.xhtml">0.9.38</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.37.xhtml">0.9.37</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.36.xhtml">0.9.36</a>
			</li>
		</ul>
		<hr />
		<p>
		Donate in <a href="bitcoin:19UjvmrDJMBcGDYQoFcrjYPqLRFPSwznZn">Bitcoin</a>. - 19UjvmrDJMBcGDYQoFcrjYPqLRFPSwznZn<br />
		Donate in <a href="litecoin:LU6WM3nmGJy3N5PEE8yQwsAyenJs8dtbmV">Litecoin</a>. - LU6WM3nmGJy3N5PEE8yQwsAyenJs8dtbmV<br />
		Donate in <a href="dogecoin:DJC1R683hfD4VSEDAJrvNpv6GsCg8ewvhm">Dogecoin</a>. - DJC1R683hfD4VSEDAJrvNpv6GsCg8ewvhm
		</p>
	</body>
</html>
