<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
		<title>Lilith 8.2.0 Release Notes</title>
		<link href="help.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>Lilith 8.2.0</h1>
		<div>
			<a class="download" href="http://sourceforge.net/projects/lilith/files/lilith/8.2.0">Download Now!
		<br />(Released: 2018-08-09)</a>
		</div>
		
		<p>This version of Lilith demands Java 8 update 181 or higher and will
		says so if you try to start it with an older version. It has also
		been built and tested with Java 10.0.2.</p>
		<p>You can still receive event from previous versions so if your
		application is still running Java 7 or lower just keep using the
		0.9.44 artifacts.<br />
		Keep in mind that
		<a href="http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/eol-135779.html">Java
		SE 7 End of Public Updates</a> has already been reached.</p>
		
		<h2>Changelog</h2>
		<h3>Added</h3>

		<ul>
			<li>Added "Find previous active" and "Find next active" buttons to toolbar. </li>
			<li>Added "Find previous" and "Find next" buttons to toolbar.</li>
			<li>Added lots of missing mnemonics.</li>
			<li>If the connection is lost then Message/RequestURI in table will now show "Connection closed." instead of nothing.</li>
			<li>Added smooth horizontal table scrolling option that is enabled by default.</li>
			<li>Added support for Log4j 2 <code>JsonLayout</code>, <code>YamlLayout</code> and <code>XmlLayout</code>. <code>SerializedLayout</code> has been deprecated in log4j2 2.9.0 so you should use one of the other options instead.</li>
			<li>Added Automatic-Module-Names for artifacts where appropriate. See <a href="http://branchandbound.net/blog/java/2017/12/automatic-module-name/">Automatic-Module-Name: Calling all Java Library Maintainers</a>.</li>
		</ul>

		<h3>Changed</h3>

		<ul>
			<li>"Clean all inactive logs" is now less noisy in the Lilith log.</li>
			<li>Changed icons for "Find previous active" and "Find next active". They now differ from "Find previous" and "Find next" as they should.</li>
			<li>Refactored actions and icon handling.</li>
			<li>Don't add null events to global logs.</li>
			<li>Unchecking "Enable global logs." in Preferences is now deleting existing global log files automatically.</li>
			<li>Keyboard help will now always be up-to-date.</li>
			<li>Demand Java 8 <code>1.8.0_181</code>.</li>
		</ul>

		<h3>Deprecated</h3>

		<ul>
			<li>Nothing.</li>
		</ul>

		<h3>Removed</h3>

		<ul>
			<li>"Previous" and "Next" buttons in find panel.</li>
			<li>"Pause" action. Pausing only paused updating of the table, not receiving of events. This was confusing (even me) and served no actual purpose. This action was a left-over from the early days of Lilith when it was used for debugging during development.</li>
		</ul>

		<h3>Fixed</h3>

		<ul>
			<li>All L&amp;F support mac screen menu bar with Java 9 or higher.</li>
			<li>Zero-delimited event receivers did not add a <code>null</code> event when end of stream was reached.</li>
			<li>Fixed initial enabled state of "Go to source".</li>
			<li>Fixed enabled state of "Edit" menu. Mustn't be disabled anymore because "Paste StackTraceElement" is always available.</li>
			<li>Fixed enabled state of "Copy selection".</li>
			<li>Menu entries related to global logs are now disabled if "Enable global logs." is unchecked in Preferences.</li>
			<li>Added more dependencies and entries to the deserialization whitelist. This is essentially necessary because <code>logback-access</code> does not have an <code>AccessEventVO</code>. See also <a href="http://jira.qos.ch/browse/LOGBACK-1182">LOGBACK-1182 - Problem deserializing AccessEvent.</a>.</li>
			<li>Not all event producers expect a heartbeat.</li>
			<li>Made sure that "You have changed the look &amp; feel." and "You have changed the application path." dialogs aren't hidden by the preferences dialog.</li>
			<li>Fixed java executable detection in Windows bat file. Thanks, <a href="https://github.com/tha2015">tha2015</a>!</li>
			<li>Logback 1.2.3, log4j2 2.11.1, Groovy 2.5.1, jackson 2.9.6, spring 5.0.8, protobuf 3.6.1, junique 1.0.4, jcommander 1.72, commons-lang 3.7, commons-text 1.4, commons-io 2.6, flying-saucer 9.1.14, glazedlists 1.10.0, aspectj 1.9.1, httpcore 4.4.10, httpclient 4.5.6, woodstox 5.1.0</li>
			<li>Fixed several split package issues. Because of this, some classes have changed package names:
<ul><li>the two most commonly used classes <code>de.huxhorn.lilith.logback.appender.ClassicMultiplexSocketAppender</code> and <code>de.huxhorn.lilith.logback.encoder.ClassicLilithEncoder</code> have not been moved. </li>
					<li>
						<code>de.huxhorn.lilith.logback.encoder.AccessLilithEncoder</code> changed to <code>de.huxhorn.lilith.logback.encoder.access.AccessLilithEncoder</code>.</li>
					<li>
						<code>de.huxhorn.lilith.logback.appender.AccessMultiplexSocketAppender</code> changed to <code>de.huxhorn.lilith.logback.appender.access.AccessMultiplexSocketAppender</code>.</li>
					<li>
						<code>de.huxhorn.lilith.logback.appender.ClassicJsonMultiplexSocketAppender</code> changed to <code>de.huxhorn.lilith.logback.appender.json.ClassicJsonMultiplexSocketAppender</code>.</li>
					<li>
						<code>de.huxhorn.lilith.logback.appender.ZeroDelimitedClassicJsonMultiplexSocketAppender</code> changed to <code>de.huxhorn.lilith.logback.appender.json.ZeroDelimitedClassicJsonMultiplexSocketAppender</code>.</li>
					<li>
						<code>de.huxhorn.lilith.logback.appender.ClassicXmlMultiplexSocketAppender</code> changed to <code>de.huxhorn.lilith.logback.appender.xml.ClassicXmlMultiplexSocketAppender</code>.</li>
					<li>
						<code>de.huxhorn.lilith.logback.appender.ZeroDelimitedClassicXmlMultiplexSocketAppender</code> changed to <code>de.huxhorn.lilith.logback.appender.xml.ZeroDelimitedClassicXmlMultiplexSocketAppender</code>.</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
		</ul>

		<h3>Security</h3>

		<ul>
			<li>Nothing.</li>
		</ul>

		<h3>Known issues</h3>

		<ul>
			<li>logback-access <code>AccessEvent</code> sent by <code>SocketAppender</code> isn't guaranteed to be deserializable at the moment. You can use the Lilith Multiplex Socket Appender in the meantime.
See <a href="http://jira.qos.ch/browse/LOGBACK-1182">LOGBACK-1182 - Problem deserializing AccessEvent.</a>.</li>
			<li>Logback 1.1.0 introduced some message formatting regressions.
See <a href="http://jira.qos.ch/browse/LOGBACK-1183">LOGBACK-1183 - Message formatting regression</a>.</li>
			<li>
				<del>Binary Lilith log files will only work in case of <code>append=false</code>.</del> Implemented a workaround.
See <a href="https://jira.qos.ch/browse/LOGBACK-1257">LOGBACK-1257 - Invalid files in case of append=true and Encoder with non-null headerBytes() / footerBytes()</a>
			</li>
			<li>log4j 1 won't be able to send Java 9 <code>ClassLoaderName</code>, <code>ModuleName</code> and <code>ModuleVersion</code> for the call location of the event. Search <code>LOG4J_MODULE</code> in the source to take a look at the problem. Since <a href="https://blogs.apache.org/foundation/entry/apache_logging_services_project_announces">Log4j 1 End-Of-Life</a> has been announced 2015-08-06, chances are pretty slim that this will be fixed. Upgrade to <a href="http://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/">log4j 2</a> or <a href="https://logback.qos.ch/">Logback</a>.</li>
			<li>Flying Saucer related issues:
<ul><li>Selection in the HTML view is currently somewhat buggy, especially in case of scaled view.
See <a href="https://code.google.com/archive/p/flying-saucer/issues/79">Issue 79: SelectionHighlighter not compatible with ScalableXHTMLPanel</a>.</li>
					<li>Jumping to anchors is currently not supported so the navigation in help and details view isn't as good as it could be.
See <a href="https://code.google.com/archive/p/flying-saucer/issues/105">Issue 105: URLs with anchors</a>.</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="https://github.com/glazedlists/glazedlists/issues/485">glazedlists #485 - AutoCompleteSupport: Arrowing down on the popup and pressing enter fails to update combobox</a> is happening in the find panel on macOS. Select the correct entry with the mouse as a workaround.</li>
		</ul>
		
		<h2>Previous Versions</h2>
		<ul>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/8.1.1.xhtml">8.1.1</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/8.1.0.xhtml">8.1.0</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/8.0.0.xhtml">8.0.0</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.44.xhtml">0.9.44</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.43.xhtml">0.9.43</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.42.1.xhtml">0.9.42.1</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.42.xhtml">0.9.42</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.41.xhtml">0.9.41</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.40.xhtml">0.9.40</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.39.xhtml">0.9.39</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.38.xhtml">0.9.38</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.37.xhtml">0.9.37</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://lilithapp.com/releases/0.9.36.xhtml">0.9.36</a>
			</li>
		</ul>
		<hr />
		<p>
		Donate in <a href="bitcoin:3MwD28iwF3faSvKUBYNe2XuCzStBi1NzAH">Bitcoin</a>. - 3MwD28iwF3faSvKUBYNe2XuCzStBi1NzAH<br />
		Donate in <a href="bitcoincash:qptxwv5la2war4v67f3yf47cxj59ca2s5vh4jz0tt9">Bitcoin Cash</a>. - qptxwv5la2war4v67f3yf47cxj59ca2s5vh4jz0tt9<br />
		Donate in <a href="zcash:t1TLsUKLsNczQbG4PVx7iNEyP5LtKauL3gr">Zcash</a>. - t1TLsUKLsNczQbG4PVx7iNEyP5LtKauL3gr<br />
		Donate in <a href="litecoin:MPYHQnhjtv9nVFCoHF3UyPJAvhwqqZ2snx">Litecoin</a>. - MPYHQnhjtv9nVFCoHF3UyPJAvhwqqZ2snx
		</p>
	</body>
</html>
